Summary
=======

Jo is a JavaScript framework for HTML5 capable browsers and devices. It was
originally designed to work on mobile platforms as a GUI and light data layer
on top of PhoneGap. Since its creation, Jo has also been tested successfully
as a lightweight framework for mobile browsers, newer desktop browsers, and
even Dashboard widgets.

Building
========

It's pretty easy to build on your own, but to get the most out of it you'll
want to get a minifier like `jsmin` or the YUI Compressor. Minified and
gzipped, Jo weighs in around 9K with no other JavaScript library dependancies.

Mac OSX, Linux & BSD
--------------------

	cd jo
	./build


Windows
-------

	cd jo
	build.bat

If you're not up for building the library yourself, there's nothing wrong with
downloading the latest stable release, all built and ready to plug in from:
[GitHub Downloads](http://github.com/davebalmer/jo/downloads)


Directory Map
=============

Important files in the directory tree are:

- `js/jo_min.js`

  This is the jo library bundled and minified, ready to drop into your project. You
  will need to build the library to make this file (as well as the un-minified
  version `jo.js` which is useful for debugging).

- `css/aluminum`

  This is a CSS3 bundle ready to ship your app with. Also serves as a good example
  of modern HTML5 styling capabilities. Looks pretty bad in IE up through version 8.

- `css/jo.css`

  This is a newer base CSS theme for Jo, preferred over Aluminum for now. Built with
  Less CSS compiler.

- `docs/*.mdown`

  These are supplimental doc files which are used by joDoc to build out the
  developer guide portions of the documentation.

